
Using Your 1:1s
Best Practices for 1:1s
Best Practices for 1:1s
Author: Frank Szczerba

Inspired by: Using Your 1:1s with Joe McClain

Organize the Agenda
Have an organized, ordered list of topics. Don't lump it all together.

Address the least controversial stuff first, so you can get through it quickly.

Spend some time setting context for general issues that need complex decisions or controversial issues. Tell a story to refresh your manager or get them up to speed. Remember, a story has a beginning, a middle, and an end. The controversy goes in the middle, finish with a resolution, or at least your suggestion for one.

Leave the least important topics at the end. You may not cover everything. Schedule another meeting if needed.

Prioritize!
Career issues

Things that are "above your pay grade"

Everything else

Keep notes
Track what has been agreed on.

Track what has been deferred until next time, and start the agenda for the next meeting.

Topics to avoid
This is not a status meeting. There are already lots of tools for status in Google.

Don't rely on your manager or mentor to set the agenda. This meeting is for your benefit. Take ownership!

Topics to discuss
Short-term goals

What do you want to change/improve/learn in the next few weeks or so?

What does your manager/mentor think you should focus on?

Looking to offload a responsibility that's become old hat and work on something new?

Long-term goals

Where do you want to be in a year? In 2 years? In 5 years?

Recent critical conversations

Did a recent discussion not go the way you would have liked? How can you better express your point of view? How can you better accept and embrace the team decision?

Performance

Present your self assessment

Do this every time!

Frequent, timely feedback enables smaller corrections

This should be a few minutes out of each 1:1

Periodic and time-limited topics

For example, the current state of design decisions for a new design

Revisit these each 1:1 until no new information is coming up

One-offs

Upcoming time off or leaves

Project transfers

Follow up!
Review your notes after the meeting

Make sure everything important is captured

Make sure any action items make it into your to-do list

Start the agenda for the next meeting immediately

Add the recurring items you discuss every time

Performance

Short-term goals

Periodic and time-limited topics that haven't been closed

Copy over any items that were deferred this time

Remind your manager of any open actions they are responsible for.

Make progress on any open actions you are responsible for.

Want to discuss something controversial?
Thinking about switching teams? Want to adjust priorities? Having difficulties with a co-worker?

These are ideal topics for a 1:1, and may even be reason to schedule an extra 1:1 outside of your normal schedule.

Provide your manager/mentor some advance notice. Generally, they will not be preparing in advance for 1:1s, but may need time to organize their thoughts about these topics. Otherwise, don't be surprised if they take down your concern and schedule a follow-up discussion.

Setting an agenda and sticking to it is particularly important in this context.

Don't make it personal... unless it has to be. If it's a technical disagreement, keep it technical, not a he said/she said.

If you want to overhaul your manager's view of you, you have to be explicit about it.
Your manager will probably assume you are happy unless you tell them otherwise.

Don't assume they know how you feel about your role on the team, your career development, etc. Be explicit about it!

If you want to go for promotion, take on more responsibility, focus on a different part of your project, etc, you have to speak up. If you've spent the last 6 months responding to every ticket in your team's queue, you manager will assume that's what you enjoy doing!

This is your opportunity to have your manager's undivided attention.

At Google, you own your career. It's your manager's job to help you grow, but they need to know your aspirations.

Meet as often as needed, but no more than that
If you are not covering what you need to, increase the frequency and/or duration

If things are going smoothly and there is little to discuss, decrease the frequency and/or duration

Respect your manager's time (an your own!), but ensure they know what you need

Get on the other side of the table
Host an intern

Be a tech lead

Be a mentor

Skip-level and other 1:1s
You should have an occasional 1:1 with your manager's manager.

This is not the place to discuss day-to-day issues, unless they are things you and your manager haven't been able to resolve between – in which case the topic is actually your relationship with your manager.

These meetings are an opportunity to get a higher level of vision.

You should have regular 1:1s with your TL, if it's not your manager.

These will be more focused on tactical priorities and implementation.

You can still discuss personal development and your career with your TL. Your manager is responsible for these areas, but your TL can often help too.

Take advantage of the Tech Advisor Program. These are experienced leaders in the Google Tech organization who have agreed to make themselves available to you.

MentorsOnCall provides career mentoring from peer-nominated mentors over the course of one or a few 1:1s.

Don't hesitate to request cross-team or other 1:1s outside of the usual suspects.

Other resources
Watch the video that inspired this: Using Your 1:1s with Joe McClain.

Look at the one-pager for the converse approach — telling managers how to be effective at 1:1s with their reports.

Read Crucial Conversations and Team Geek.

Best Practices

